[WP] You're a regular guy who works at a Home Depot in Alabama and are unknowingly influencing the Venezuelan economy

Derrick got out of his car and rubbed his eyes, heading to another graveyard shift. He always hated these times, waking up at 11 at night, to work until 6 the next morning, going home to his girlfriend, and trying to get as much sleep as possible. His income was barely above minimum wage, and he always struggled to curb his drug addiction. The store felt like it was draining his soul and he wanted out.

Except two months ago, he began to notice weird things. The same customer, who went by Eduardo, would come in with a well-trimmed suit each week and ask for his advice on whatever. Lately, that advice had been solely about economics. How much should x cost compared to y? How much x should be produced a month? Derrick didn't know anything about economics, so it was mostly shrugs at first, but at the months went on, Derrick started giving him phony answers just so he could leave him alone. Then checks started coming in his mail. The checks came from a Nicolás Maduro (whoever that was), and every week he would get them for the same amount. Not enough to make him rich or anything, but enough to pay the rent.

Derrick opened the front door and clocked in. He went to the cashier stand, and just sat there waiting for customers. Surprisingly, Home Depot was actually busy this time of day; more than a few night owls would be perusing the shelves looking for whatever they needed. A few minutes into his shift, he saw a man in a suit walk in. Instead of Eduardo, though, it was a middle-aged man of about 55 who came straight to Derrick.

"Are you Derrick Manuel?"

"Uhh, yeah. How can I help you tonight?" Derrick really was tired, being up at an ungodly hour. He tried his best to smile like he was payed to do.

"I'm Michael Stevens, and I'm with the FBI. I'm here to ask you a few questions regarding this man. Have you ever seen him?"

Stevens pulled out a photo of Eduardo, only everything about it seemed strange. Eduardo was in a military uniform, wearing a general's beret and holding a cigar in his hand, standing beside five or ten men in similar uniforms and helmets. Derrick didn't know how to react. There's no way that could be Eduardo.

"I'm sorry, what? Why are you showing me this?"

"May I remind you that it's illegal to interfere in an investigation? Have you seen this man?"

"Maybe, I don't know? We get a lot of customers." Derrick couldn't believe what was coming out of his mouth. Did he just lie to the FBI? This couldn't go down well anymore. Should he confess? No, that would just make me a suspect. Damn it, I'm in too deep.

"Okay, let me show you another picture." Stevens puts his hand in his suit and produces another photo, this time of Eduardo in the Home Depot talking with Derrick at the register.

"Yeah, like I said, we have a lot of customers." Oh crap

"Could you tell me then why you--"

"Stevens!" A younger agent comes walking speedily, and whispers in Stevens' ear. They then go a few paces away, and start conversing. Derrick felt nervous. Should I ask them. Am I in trouble? Sh*t, I'm in trouble aren't I?

Stevens turns around and calmly says "We have no further questions, thank you for your time."

Derrick didn't know what to make of it. He finished the shift and few hours later, but couldn't get the experience out of his mind. When he got back to his apartment, he found his girlfriend asleep, and opened his laptop to check his e-mails. He found one new e-mail in his inbox, timestamped at about half an hour after the conversation, reading "Good job not blowing our cover. Meet us in the alleyway behind Bernard St. at 2:07 for more instructions."

Derrick did nothing but stare blankly, thinking to himself What did I just get myself into?
